---
layout: post
title: "Week 13: Standup Meetings"
---

## My Standup
Our standup meeting went well this week, but the deadline for this project has me quite worried. In just a few weeks, we’ll have to give a presentation, but I haven’t made any PRs yet. The issues I chose to work on are turning out to be more difficult than expected. 
<!--more-->
David and I agreed that we should work on peripheral issues related to the language server and the CLI because it would take inordinate amounts of time to modify the internals of the compiler. However, the language server still requires a reasonable understanding of the AST, the lexer, and parser. Rust code is surprisingly not that readable if you’ve never used it. Although I’ve worked through half of the Rust Programming Language book, I’m still a beginner, and it’s going to take a while before I stop getting barraged with compiler errors. I think I’ll have to give up on the language server issues despite the work I’ve already put in and transition to setup-related issues and the CLI. 

## Other Standups
During other groups’ standups, I noticed I wasn’t the only one struggling. Though I certainly don’t enjoy seeing this, I have to admit I’m slightly relieved. However, I am a little concerned about grading standards for this project. As I look at other project wikis, I see that certain classmates have many PRs, but in all honesty, some of these have no code and are very surface-level changes that look like they’re made to check off a box. While it’s certainly okay to do this when learning how to format PRs and how to behave in issue discussions, I’m hoping that at the end of the semester it doesn’t appear that others have done more than David and I. Even small code contributions to our project are no joke. 
